# Compile and train the model

4. Compile and train the model
Now that the model is defined, the next thing to do is build it. Create a model by first compiling it with an optimizer and loss function, then train it on your training data and labels. The goal is to have the model figure out the relationship between the training data and its training labels. Later, you want your model to see data that resembles your training data, then make a prediction about what that data should look like.

Notice the use of metrics= as a parameter, which allows TensorFlow to report on the accuracy of the training by checking the predicted results against the known answers (the labels).


model.compile(optimizer = tf.keras.optimizers.Adam(),
              loss = 'sparse_categorical_crossentropy',
              metrics=['accuracy'])

model.fit(training_images, training_labels, epochs=5)
When model.fit executes, you'll see loss and accuracy:


Epoch 1/5
60000/60000 [=======] - 6s 101us/sample - loss: 0.4964 - acc: 0.8247
Epoch 2/5
60000/60000 [=======] - 5s 86us/sample - loss: 0.3720 - acc: 0.8656
Epoch 3/5
60000/60000 [=======] - 5s 85us/sample - loss: 0.3335 - acc: 0.8780
Epoch 4/5
60000/60000 [=======] - 6s 103us/sample - loss: 0.3134 - acc: 0.8844
Epoch 5/5
60000/60000 [=======] - 6s 94us/sample - loss: 0.2931 - acc: 0.8926
When the model is done training, you will see an accuracy value at the end of the final epoch. It might look something like 0.8926 as above. This tells you that your neural network is about 89% accurate in classifying the training data. In other words, it figured out a pattern match between the image and the labels that worked 89% of the time. Not great, but not bad considering it was only trained for five epochs and done quickly.