# Exploration exercises

6. Exploration exercises
Exercise 1
For this first exercise, run the following code:


classifications = model.predict(test_images)
print(classifications[0])
It creates a set of classifications for each of the test images, then prints the first entry in the classifications. The output after you run it is a list of numbers. Why do you think that is and what do those numbers represent?

Try running print(test_labels[0]) and you'll get a 9. Does that help you understand why the list looks the way it does?

The output of the model is a list of 10 numbers. Those numbers are a probability that the value being classified is the corresponding label. For example, the first value in the list is the probability that the clothing is of class 0 and the next is a 1. Notice that they are all very low probabilities except one. Also, because of Softmax, all the probabilities in the list sum to 1.0.

The list and the labels are 0 based, so the ankle boot having label 9 means that it is the 10th of the 10 classes. The list having the 10th element being the highest value means that the neural network has predicted that the item it is classifying is most likely an ankle boot.

Exercise 2
Look at the layers in your model. Experiment with different values for the dense layer with 512 neurons.

What different results do you get for loss and training time? Why do you think that's the case?

For example, if you increase to 1,024 neurons, you have to do more calculations, slowing down the process. But in this case they have a good impact because the model is more accurate. That doesn't mean more is always better. You can hit the law of diminishing returns very quickly.

Exercise 3
What would happen if you remove the Flatten() layer. Why do you think that's the case?

You get an error about the shape of the data. The details of the error may seem vague right now, but it reinforces the rule of thumb that the first layer in your network should be the same shape as your data. Right now your data is 28x28 images, and 28 layers of 28 neurons would be infeasible, so it makes more sense to flatten that 28,28 into a 784x1.

Instead of writing all the code, add the Flatten() layer at the beginning. When the arrays are loaded into the model later, they'll automatically be flattened for you.

Exercise 4
Consider the final (output) layers. Why are there 10 of them? What would happen if you had a different amount than 10?

Try training the network with 5. You get an error as soon as it finds an unexpected value. Another rule of thumb—the number of neurons in the last layer should match the number of classes you are classifying for. In this case, it's the digits 0 through 9, so there are 10 of them, and hence you should have 10 neurons in your final layer.

Exercise 5
Consider the effects of additional layers in the network. What will happen if you add another layer between the one with 512 and the final layer with 10?

There isn't a significant impact because this is relatively simple data. For far more complex data, extra layers are often necessary.

Exercise 6
Before you trained, you normalized the data, going from values that were 0 through 255 to values that were 0 through 1. What would be the impact of removing that? Here's the complete code to give it a try (note that the two lines that normalize the data are commented out).

Why do you think you get different results? There's a great answer here on Stack Overflow.


import tensorflow as tf
print(tf.__version__)
mnist = tf.keras.datasets.fashion_mnist
(training_images, training_labels), (test_images, test_labels) = mnist.load_data()
#training_images=training_images/255.0
#test_images=test_images/255.0
model = tf.keras.models.Sequential([
  tf.keras.layers.Flatten(),
  tf.keras.layers.Dense(512, activation=tf.nn.relu),
  tf.keras.layers.Dense(10, activation=tf.nn.softmax)
])
model.compile(optimizer='adam', loss='sparse_categorical_crossentropy')
model.fit(training_images, training_labels, epochs=5)
model.evaluate(test_images, test_labels)
classifications = model.predict(test_images)
print(classifications[0])
print(test_labels[0])