# Improve computer vision accuracy with convolutions

2. Improve computer vision accuracy with convolutions
You now know how to do fashion image recognition using a Deep Neural Network (DNN) containing three layers— the input layer (in the shape of the input data), the output layer (in the shape of the desired output) and a hidden layer. You experimented with several parameters that influence the final accuracy, such as different sizes of hidden layers and number of training epochs.

For convenience, here's the entire code again. Run it and take a note of the test accuracy that is printed out at the end.


import tensorflow as tf
mnist = tf.keras.datasets.fashion_mnist
(training_images, training_labels), (test_images, test_labels) = mnist.load_data()
training_images=training_images/255.0
test_images=test_images/255.0
model = tf.keras.models.Sequential([
  tf.keras.layers.Flatten(),
  tf.keras.layers.Dense(128, activation='relu'),
  tf.keras.layers.Dense(10, activation='softmax')
])
model.compile(optimizer='adam', loss='sparse_categorical_crossentropy', metrics=['accuracy'])
model.fit(training_images, training_labels, epochs=5)
test_loss, test_accuracy = model.evaluate(test_images, test_labels)
print ('Test loss: {}, Test accuracy: {}'.format(test_loss, test_accuracy*100))
Your accuracy is probably about 89% on training and 87% on validation. You can make that even better using convolutions, which narrows down the content of the image to focus on specific, distinct details.

If you've ever done image processing using a filter, then convolutions will look very familiar.

In short, you take an array (usually 3x3 or 5x5) and pass it over the image. By changing the underlying pixels based on the formula within that matrix, you can perform operations like edge detection. For example, typically a 3x3 is defined for edge detection where the middle cell is 8, and all of its neighbors are -1. In this case, for each pixel, you would multiply its value by 8, then subtract the value of each neighbor. Do this for every pixel, and you'll end up with a new image that has its edges enhanced.

This is perfect for computer vision, because enhancing features like edges helps the computer distinguish one item from another. Better still, the amount of information needed is much less, because you'll train only on the highlighted features.

That's the concept of Convolutional Neural Networks. Add some layers to do convolution before you have the dense layers, and then the information going to the dense layers becomes more focused and possibly more accurate.