# Visualize the convolutions and pooling

7. Visualize the convolutions and pooling
This code shows you the convolutions graphically. The print (test_labels[:100]) shows the first 100 labels in the test set, and you can see that the ones at index 0, index 23 and index 28 are all the same value (9). They're all shoes. Take a look at the result of running the convolution on each and you'll begin to see common features between them emerge. Now, when the DNN is training on that data, it's working with a lot less information, and it's perhaps finding a commonality between shoes based on that convolution and pooling combination.


print(test_labels[:100])

[9 2 1 1 6 1 4 6 5 7 4 5 7 3 4 1 2 4 8 0 2 5 7 9 1 4 6 0 9 3 8 8 3 3 8 0 7
 5 7 9 6 1 3 7 6 7 2 1 2 2 4 4 5 8 2 2 8 4 8 0 7 7 8 5 1 1 2 3 9 8 7 0 2 6
 2 3 1 2 8 4 1 8 5 9 5 0 3 2 0 6 5 3 6 7 1 8 0 1 4 2]
Now you can select some of the corresponding images for those labels and render what they look like going through the convolutions. So, in the following code, FIRST_IMAGE, SECOND_IMAGE and THIRD_IMAGE are all the indexes for value 9, an ankle boot.


import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
f, axarr = plt.subplots(3,4)
FIRST_IMAGE=0
SECOND_IMAGE=23
THIRD_IMAGE=28
CONVOLUTION_NUMBER = 6
from tensorflow.keras import models
layer_outputs = [layer.output for layer in model.layers]
activation_model = tf.keras.models.Model(inputs = model.input, outputs = layer_outputs)
for x in range(0,4):
  f1 = activation_model.predict(test_images[FIRST_IMAGE].reshape(1, 28, 28, 1))[x]
  axarr[0,x].imshow(f1[0, : , :, CONVOLUTION_NUMBER], cmap='inferno')
  axarr[0,x].grid(False)
  f2 = activation_model.predict(test_images[SECOND_IMAGE].reshape(1, 28, 28, 1))[x]
  axarr[1,x].imshow(f2[0, : , :, CONVOLUTION_NUMBER], cmap='inferno')
  axarr[1,x].grid(False)
  f3 = activation_model.predict(test_images[THIRD_IMAGE].reshape(1, 28, 28, 1))[x]
  axarr[2,x].imshow(f3[0, : , :, CONVOLUTION_NUMBER], cmap='inferno')
  axarr[2,x].grid(False)
And you should see something like the following, where the convolution is taking the essence of the sole of the shoe, effectively spotting that as a common feature across all shoes.

