# Before you begin

1. Before you begin
In this codelab, you'll learn the basic "Hello, World" of ML, where instead of programming explicit rules in a language, such as Java or C++, you'll build a system trained on data to infer the rules that determine a relationship between numbers.

Consider the following problem: You're building a system that performs activity recognition for fitness tracking. You might have access to the speed at which a person is walking and attempt to infer their activity based on that speed using a conditional.

cc3628d9a1547597.png


if(speed<4){
  status=WALKING;
}
You could extend that to running with another condition.

f2cc3929221107b8.png


if(speed<4){
    status=WALKING;
} else {
    status=RUNNING;
}
In a final condition, you could similarly detect cycling.

aeb282cf03d5cff.png


if(speed<4){
    status=WALKING;
} else if(speed<12){
    status=RUNNING;
} else {
    status=BIKING;
}
Now, consider what happens when you want to include an activity, like golf. It's less obvious how to create a rule to determine the activity.

fc772abb6fee2804.png


// Now what?
It's extremely difficult to write a program that will recognize the golfing activity, so what do you do? You can use ML to solve the problem!

Prerequisites
Before attempting this codelab, you'll want to have:

A solid knowledge of Python
Basic programming skills
What you'll learn
The basics of machine learning
What you'll build
Your first machine learning model
What you'll need
If you've never created an ML model using TensorFlow, you can use Colaboratory, a browser-based environment containing all the required dependencies. You can find the code for the rest of the codelab running in Colab.

If you're using a different IDE, make sure you have Python installed. You'll also need TensorFlow and the NumPy library. You can learn more about and install TensorFlow here. Install NumPy here.