# Create your first ML model

3. Create your first ML model
Consider the following sets of numbers. Can you see the relationship between them?

X:

-1

0

1

2

3

4

Y:

-2

1

4

7

10

13

As you look at them, you might notice that the value of X is increasing by 1 as you read left to right and the corresponding value of Y is increasing by 3. You probably think that Y equals 3X plus or minus something. Then, you'd probably look at the 0 on X and see that Y is 1, and you'd come up with the relationship Y=3X+1.

That's almost exactly how you would use code to train a model to spot the patterns in the data!

Now, look at the code to do it.

How would you train a neural network to do the equivalent task? Using data! By feeding it with a set of X's and a set of Y's, it should be able to figure out the relationship between them.

Imports
> Note: If you're not using Colab and have your own Python environment set up with TensorFlow installed and ready to use, then create a new Python file before continuing.

Start with your imports. Here, you're importing TensorFlow and calling it tf for ease of use.

Next, import a library called numpy, which represents your data as lists easily and quickly.

The framework for defining a neural network as a set of sequential layers is called keras, so import that, too.


import tensorflow as tf
import numpy as np
from tensorflow import keras
Define and compile the neural network
Next, create the simplest possible neural network. It has one layer, that layer has one neuron, and the input shape to it is only one value.


model = tf.keras.Sequential([keras.layers.Dense(units=1, input_shape=[1])])
Next, write the code to compile your neural network. When you do so, you need to specify two functions—a loss and an optimizer.

In this example, you know that the relationship between the numbers is Y=3X+1.

When the computer is trying to learn that, it makes a guess, maybe Y=10X+10. The loss function measures the guessed answers against the known correct answers and measures how well or badly it did.

Next, the model uses the optimizer function to make another guess. Based on the loss function's result, it tries to minimize the loss. At this point, maybe it will come up with something like Y=5X+5. While that's still pretty bad, it's closer to the correct result (the loss is lower).

The model repeats that for the number of epochs, which you'll see shortly.

First, here's how to tell it to use mean_squared_error for the loss and stochastic gradient descent (sgd) for the optimizer. You don't need to understand the math for those yet, but you can see that they work!

Over time, you'll learn the different and appropriate loss and optimizer functions for different scenarios.


model.compile(optimizer='sgd', loss='mean_squared_error')
Provide the data
Next, feed some data. In this case, you take the six X and six Y variables from earlier. You can see that the relationship between those is that Y=3X+1, so where X is -1, Y is -2.

A python library called NumPy provides lots of array type data structures to do this. Specify the values as an array in NumPy with np.array[].


xs = np.array([-1.0, 0.0, 1.0, 2.0, 3.0, 4.0], dtype=float)
ys = np.array([-2.0, 1.0, 4.0, 7.0, 10.0, 13.0], dtype=float)
Now you have all the code you need to define the neural network. The next step is to train it to see if it can infer the patterns between those numbers and use them to create a model.