# Train the model from generators

7. Train the model from generators
Set up data generators that read pictures in your source folders, convert them to float32 tensors, and feed them (with their labels) to your network.

You'll have one generator for the training images and one for the validation images. Your generators will yield batches of images of size 300x300 and their labels (binary).

As you may already know, data that goes into neural networks should usually be normalized in some way to make it more amenable to processing by the network. (It's uncommon to feed raw pixels into a CNN.) In your case, you'll preprocess your images by normalizing the pixel values to be in the [0, 1] range (originally all values are in the [0, 255] range).

In Keras, that can be done via the keras.preprocessing.image.ImageDataGenerator class using the rescale parameter. That ImageDataGenerator class allows you to instantiate generators of augmented image batches (and their labels) via .flow(data, labels) or .flow_from_directory(directory). Those generators can then be used with the Keras model methods that accept data generators as inputs: fit_generator, evaluate_generator and predict_generator.


from tensorflow.keras.preprocessing.image import ImageDataGenerator
 
# All images will be rescaled by 1./255
train_datagen = ImageDataGenerator(rescale=1./255)
 
# Flow training images in batches of 128 using train_datagen generator
train_generator = train_datagen.flow_from_directory(
        '/tmp/horse-or-human/',  # This is the source directory for training images
        target_size=(300, 300),  # All images will be resized to 150x150
        batch_size=128,
        # Since we use binary_crossentropy loss, we need binary labels
        class_mode='binary')