# Test the model

9. Test the model
Now actually run a prediction using the model. The code will allow you to choose one or more files from your file system. It will then upload them and run them through the model, giving an indication of whether the object is a horse or a human.

You can download images from the internet to your file system to try them out! Note that you might see that the network makes a lot of mistakes despite the fact that the training accuracy is above 99%.

That's due to something called overfitting, which means that the neural network is trained with very limited data (there are only roughly 500 images of each class). So it's very good at recognizing images that look like those in the training set, but it can fail a lot at images that are not in the training set.

That's a datapoint proving that the more data that you train on, the better your final network will be!

There are many techniques that can be used to make your training better, despite limited data, including something called image augmentation, but that's beyond the scope of this codelab.


import numpy as np
from google.colab import files
from keras.preprocessing import image
 
uploaded = files.upload()
 
for fn in uploaded.keys():
 
  # predicting images
  path = '/content/' + fn
  img = image.load_img(path, target_size=(300, 300))
  x = image.img_to_array(img)
  x = np.expand_dims(x, axis=0)
 
  images = np.vstack([x])
  classes = model.predict(images, batch_size=10)
  print(classes[0])
  if classes[0]>0.5:
    print(fn + " is a human")
  else:
    print(fn + " is a horse")
For example, say that you want to test with this image:

9e07a57ff3be7a82.jpeg

Here's what the colab produces:

77b678e70b00862a.png

Despite it being a cartoon graphic, it still classifies correctly.

The following image also classifies correctly:

c9213173d9f3d83c.jpeg

f2844da737a1a2f2.png

Try some images of your own and explore!